{{{
using System;
using NUnit.Framework;
using Retlang;

namespace RetlangTests
{

	/*
	 * This demonstration imagines the following scenario:  A stream
	 * of quadratic equations is being received.  Each equation must
	 * be solved in turn and then its solution spat out.  We wish to
	 * take advantage of multi-core hardware that will be able to solve
	 * each independent quadratic equation rapidly and then combine
	 * the results back into one stream.
	 * 
	 * A contrived example, certainly, but not altogether different from
	 * many computing jobs that must process data packets from one stream
	 * and output them onto one other stream, but can efficiently do
	 * the actual calculations on the packets in parallel.
	 * 
	 * Our strategy will be to divide up the quadratics by their square
	 * term:  e.g. 3x^2 + 5X + 7 will be solved by the "3" solver.
	 * The constraint we set is that all the quadratics will have
	 * a square term with integer value between one and ten.  We will
	 * therefore create ten workers.
	 */

	[TestFixture]
	public class AlgebraDemonstration
	{

		// An immutable class that represents a quadratic equation
		// in the form of ax^2 + bx + c = 0.  This class will be
		// our inputs.  It's important that the classes we pass
		// between processes by immutable, or our framework cannot
		// guarantee thread safety.
		class Quadratic
		{
			private readonly int _a;
			private readonly int _b;
			private readonly int _c;

			public Quadratic(int a, int b, int c)
			{
				_a = a;
				_b = b;
				_c = c;
			}

			public int A { get { return _a; } }

			public int B { get { return _b; } }

			public int C { get { return _c; } }
		}

		// An immutable class that represents the solutions to a quadratic
		// equation.
		class QuadraticSolutions
		{
			private readonly double _solutionOne;
			private readonly double _solutionTwo;
			private readonly bool _complexSolutions;

			public QuadraticSolutions(double solutionOne, double solutionTwo, bool complexSolutions)
			{
				_solutionOne = solutionOne;
				_solutionTwo = solutionTwo;
				_complexSolutions = complexSolutions;
			}

			public string SolutionOne
			{
				get { return _solutionOne + ImaginarySuffix(); }
			}

			public string SolutionTwo
			{
				get { return _solutionTwo + ImaginarySuffix(); }
			}

			private string ImaginarySuffix()
			{
				return _complexSolutions ? "i" : "";
			}
		}

		// Immutable class representing a quadratic equation and its
		// two computed zeros.  This class will be output by the
		// solver threads.
		class SolvedQuadratic
		{
			private readonly Quadratic quadratic;
			private readonly QuadraticSolutions solutions;

			public SolvedQuadratic(Quadratic quadratic, QuadraticSolutions solutions)
			{
				this.quadratic = quadratic;
				this.solutions = solutions;
			}

			public override string ToString()
			{
				return string.Format("The quadratic {0} * x^2 + {1} * x + {2} has zeroes at {3} and {4}.",
									 quadratic.A, quadratic.B, quadratic.C, solutions.SolutionOne, solutions.SolutionTwo);
			}
		}

		// Here is a class that produces a stream of quadratics.  This
		// class simply randomly generates a fixed number of quadratics,
		// but one can imagine this class as representing a socket listener
		// that simply converts the packets received to quadratics and
		// publishes them out.
		class QuadraticSource
		{
			// The class has its own thread to use for publishing.
			private readonly IProcessContext _processContext;
			private readonly int _numberToGenerate;
			private readonly Random _random;

			public QuadraticSource(IProcessContext processContext, int numberToGenerate, int seed)
			{
				_processContext = processContext;
				_numberToGenerate = numberToGenerate;
				_random = new Random(seed);
			}

			public void PublishQuadratics()
			{
				for (int idx = 0; idx < _numberToGenerate; idx++)
				{
					Quadratic quadratic = Next();
					// As agreed, we publish to a topic that is defined
					// by the square term of the quadratic.
					string topic = quadratic.A.ToString();
					_processContext.Publish(topic, quadratic);
				}
				// Once all the quadratics have been published, stop.
				_processContext.Stop();
			}

			// This simply creates a pseudo-random quadratic.
			private Quadratic Next()
			{
				// Insure we have a quadratic.  No zero for the square parameter.
				int a = _random.Next(9) + 1;
				int b = -_random.Next(100);
				int c = _random.Next(10);

				return new Quadratic(a, b, c);
			}
		}

		// This is our solver class.  It is assigned its own context and
		// a topic to listen on.  When it receives a quadratic it publishes
		// its solution to the 'solved' topic.
		class QuadraticSolver
		{
			private readonly IProcessContext _processContext;

			public QuadraticSolver(IProcessContext processContext, string squareTerm)
			{
				_processContext = processContext;
				_processContext.Subscribe<Quadratic>(new TopicEquals(squareTerm), ProcessReceivedQuadratic);
			}

			private void ProcessReceivedQuadratic(IMessageHeader header, Quadratic quadratic)
			{
				QuadraticSolutions solutions = Solve(quadratic);
				SolvedQuadratic solvedQuadratic = new SolvedQuadratic(quadratic, solutions);
				_processContext.Publish("solved", solvedQuadratic);
			}

			private QuadraticSolutions Solve(Quadratic quadratic)
			{
				int a = quadratic.A;
				int b = quadratic.B;
				int c = quadratic.C;
				bool imaginary = false;

				double discriminant = ((b * b) - (4 * a * c));

				if (discriminant < 0)
				{
					discriminant = -discriminant;
					imaginary = true;
				}

				double tmp = Math.Sqrt(discriminant);

				double solutionOne = (-b + tmp) / (2 * a);
				double solutionTwo = (-b - tmp) / (2 * a);

				return new QuadraticSolutions(solutionOne, solutionTwo, imaginary);
			}
		}

		// Finally we have a sink for the solved processes.  This class
		// simply prints them out to the console, but one can imagine
		// the solved quadratics (or whatever) all streaming out across
		// the same socket.
		class SolvedQuadraticSink
		{
			private readonly IProcessContext _processContext;
			private readonly int _numberToOutput;
			private int _solutionsReceived = 0;

			public SolvedQuadraticSink(IProcessContext processContext, int numberToOutput)
			{
				_processContext = processContext;
				_processContext.Subscribe<SolvedQuadratic>(new TopicEquals("solved"), PrintSolution);
				_numberToOutput = numberToOutput;
			}

			private void PrintSolution(IMessageHeader header, SolvedQuadratic solvedQuadratic)
			{
				_solutionsReceived++;
				Console.WriteLine(_solutionsReceived + ") " + solvedQuadratic);
				// Once we have received all the solved equations we are interested
				// in, we stop.
				if (_solutionsReceived == _numberToOutput)
				{
					_processContext.Stop();
				}
			}
		}


		// Finally, our demonstration puts all the components together.
		[Test]
		public void DoDemonstration()
		{
			int numberOfQuadratics = 1000;

			// Create a factory to instantiate all our cooperating process contexts.
			ProcessContextFactory processContextFactory = new ProcessContextFactory();
			// We inform that factory that the processes will be communicating
			// by passing objects.
			processContextFactory.TransferEnvelopeFactory = new ObjectTransferEnvelopeFactory();
			processContextFactory.Start();

			// We create a source to generate the quadratics.
			IProcessContext sourceContext = processContextFactory.CreateAndStart();
			QuadraticSource source = new QuadraticSource(sourceContext, numberOfQuadratics, DateTime.Now.Millisecond);

			// We create and store a reference to 10 solvers,
			// one for each possible square term being published.
			IProcessContext[] solverContexts = new IProcessContext[10];
			for( int idx=0 ; idx<10 ; idx++ )
			{
				solverContexts[idx] = processContextFactory.CreateAndStart();
				string topic = (idx + 1).ToString();
				new QuadraticSolver(solverContexts[idx], topic);
			}

			// Finally a sink to output our results.
			IProcessContext sinkContext = processContextFactory.CreateAndStart();
			new SolvedQuadraticSink(sinkContext, numberOfQuadratics);

			// This starts streaming the equations.
			source.PublishQuadratics();
			
			// We pause here to allow all the problems to be solved.
			sourceContext.Join();
			sinkContext.Join();

			// Once that is done, we stop all the solvers.
			foreach( IProcessContext processContext in solverContexts )
			{
				processContext.Stop();
				// for cleanliness sake, make sure these have truly stopped by joining.
				processContext.Join();
			}

			// Finally, we stop the factory itself.
			processContextFactory.Stop();
			processContextFactory.Join();

			Console.WriteLine("Demonstration complete.");
		}
	}
}
}}}